Designing Buffer Capacity of Crosspoint-Queued
                    Switch

              Guo Chen, Dan Pei? , Youjian Zhao, and Yongqian Sun

     Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing
    {chen-g11@mails, peidan@, zhaoyoujian@, sunyq12@mails}.tsinghua.edu.cn



        Abstract. We use both theoretical analysis and simulations to study
        crosspoint-queued(CQ) buffer size’s impact on CQ switch’s throughput
        and delay performance under different traffic models, input loads, and
        scheduling algorithms. In this paper, 1) we present an exact closed-
        form formula for the CQ switch’s throughput and a non-closed-form but
        convergent formula for its delay using static non-work-conserving random
        scheduling algorithms with any given buffer size under independent
        Bernoulli traffic; 2) we show that the above results can serve as
        a conservative guidance on deciding the needed buffer size in pure
        CQ switches using work-conserving algorithms such as random, under
        independent Bernoulli traffic. Furthermore, our simulation results under
        real-trace traffic show that simple round-robin and random work-
        conserving algorithms can achieve quite good throughput and delay
        performance with feasible crosspoint buffer size. Our work reveals the
        impact of buffer size on CQ switches’ performance and provides a
        theoretical guidance on designing the buffer size in pure CQ switch,
        which is an important step towards building ultra-high-speed switching
        fabrics.


1     Introduction

As content-rich Internet applications such as video streaming, audio streaming,
file sharing, live video/voice call, become more and more popular, the demands
for higher backbone bandwidth have grown extremely fast. For the increasingly
growing link rate, the switching fabric in core routers only has a very short time
(e.g 5.12ns for a 64 bytes long packets to be transmitted in a 100Gbps link)
to schedule and send out a packet. Thus, how to reduce the scheduling time
in switch fabrics becomes a huge challenge. Most of the previous switch fab-
rics, including input-queued (IQ) switch [1, 2], combined-input-and-crosspoint-
queued (CICQ) switch [3, 4] and multi-stage switching fabrics such as [5, 6]
allocate major buffers at linecards instead of switch fabrics. To avoid packets
conflicting and damaged at the switch fabrics, every scheduling cycle in these
approaches mandate a round-trip communication between the linecards and
the switch module, which limits the switching speed. As [7] shows, in order to
?
    Dan Pei is the corresponding author.
reduce power consumption, linecards and switch module in modern core routers
are often placed in different racks with distance from a few meters to up to
60 meters. Assuming the length of inter-rack cable is 2 meters long and the
propagation speed is 2 × 108 m/s [7], the back-of-envelope calculation shows
that each scheduling cycle has at least a 20 ns delay caused by round-trip
communication, which becomes a bottleneck for a high-speed switch.


            I1
                     XB11          XB12
                                             ...            XB1N


            I2
                     XB21          XB22
                                             ...            XB2N
                     ...

                                   ...



                                                           ...
                                            .
             Input


                                               .
            IN
                                                  .
                     XBN1          XBN2
                                             ...            XBNN


                        O1            O2         Output          ON

                            Fig. 1. The CQ switch model.


    Recently, to overcome above limitations, both academia [8–11] and indus-
try [12] have a growing interest in crosspoint-queued (CQ) switch (illustrated in
Fig. 1). Packets are buffered only at each crosspoint using on-chip memory thus
switch decision can be made locally by each output scheduler independently,
solely based on the conditions of the buffers in the same column as the
output scheduler. Therefore, the scheduling algorithms can be made without
communications between linecards and switch module, which greatly reduces
the scheduling delay.
    Although CQ switch was considered to be hard to implement due to the
scarcity of on-chip memory many years ago, it has become feasible to implement
CQ switch fabrics with large crosspoint buffers by modern technology. Recently,
[8] revisited the CQ switch and proved the feasibility using semiconductor
integration technology at that time by showing a crosspoint buffer could store
over three mega bits packets for a switch with more than a hundred of ports.
    Despite the great promise of CQ Switch, there lacks a clear understanding
of how to design the crosspoint buffers to meet the switch fabric’s overall
performance requirement. In this paper, we take a first step towards this
direction. We focus on understanding the impact of buffer size on CQ switches’
performance, because the on-chip memory resource used by CQ switch for
crosspoint buffers is finite and very precious. Previously, [8] presents an accurate
analytical model for pure CQ’s throughput and delay, assuming a buffer size
of one and independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) uniform Bernoulli
traffic. However, for larger buffer sizes, the authors introduce only approximate
analytical models and simulation results for only throughput. No theoretical
or simulating analysis on the switch’s average delay has been presented for
crosspoint buffer size larger than one. Later on, several papers [9–11] used
simulations to study pure CQ switch’s performance for buffers larger than one
under traffic models, such as uniform Bernoulli and bursty.
    Compared to these related works, this paper is the first one to provide an
exact theoretical performance formula for pure CQ switch’s both throughput
and delay performance with buffer size one and larger under any independent
Bernoulli (both uniform or non-uniform) traffic. The contributions of this paper
are summarized as follows:
 – To the best of our knowledge, this paper presents the first exact closed-
   form formula of the CQ switch’s throughput with any given buffer size, and
   presents the first exact non-closed-form (but convergent) formula of the delay
   with any buffer size, both under independent Bernoulli traffic using static
   non-work-conserving random scheduling algorithm.
 – Through mathematic proof as well as the comparison between theoretical
   value and simulation results, we show that theoretical value can serve as a
   conservative guidance (a loose performance lower bound) for designing buffer
   sizes of a CQ switch using work-conserving scheduling algorithms.
 – Our real-trace simulation results show that with simple work-conserving
   algorithms, CQ switch is able to reach a very good performance with
   moderate memory resource consumption, which shows its feasibility in
   practical use.
    Our work reveals the impact of buffer size on CQ switches’ performance and
provides a theoretical and conservative guidance on deciding the needed buffer
size in pure CQ switches, which is an important step towards building ultra-
high-speed switching fabrics. Having a better understanding on CQ switches is
also an important step towards building multi-stage and multi-plane switching
fabrics of large capacity. How to scale up CQ switches to a larger self-sufficient
switching fabric is worthy of further studying, which is beyond the scope of this
paper.
    The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce
the CQ switch model and give some necessary definitions and notes. Next, in
Section 3, we analyse the throughput and delay performance of CQ switch. We
verify our analysis by simulations in Section 4. Finally, we conclude our paper
and discuss the future work in Section 5.

2   The Crosspoint-Queued Switch
In this section, we briefly describe the CQ switch model and provide some
fundamental definitions used in the rest of our paper.
2.1   The CQ switch model
Consider an N × N CQ switch shown in Fig. 1, the i-th input and i-th output
are denoted by Ii and Oi respectively. XBij represents the crosspoint buffer
between Ii and Oj , where i, j = 1, . . . , N . We assume that time is slotted and
all the packets are segmented into fixed cells before being sent into the switch,
and all the internal and external links of the CQ switch have the same capacity
of transferring one cell per time slot. We follow this assumption in the rest of
the paper. XBij has the size of Lij cells.
    At the beginning of a time slot, there is one cell or none arriving at each
input. If there is a cell arriving at input i heading to the output j at the start
of a time slot, it is buffered in XBij in a first-in-first-out (FIFO) manner if
the buffer is not full. The cell will be dropped in the case of that XBij is full.
Within the same slot, the scheduler of each output independently selects one
of the buffers in its column according to a certain scheduling algorithm, and
sends the head of line (HOL) cells out of the switch through the output if the
selected buffer is not empty. If an empty buffer is selected, there will be no cell
scheduled out through this output in this time slot. Note that the departure
steps at different output schedulers run in parallel.

2.2   Definitions
First we give some definitions that are related to the performance of a switch
fabric.
Definition 1. The throughput of a switch fabric is the ratio of the amount of
cells traversed the switch to the amount of cells arrived at the switch as time
goes to infinity. We define T P as the throughput of the switch.
Definition 2. The loss rate of a switch fabric is the ratio of the amount of cells
dropped by the switch to the amount of cells arrived to the switch as time goes
to infinity. We define LR as the loss rate of the switch.
Proposition 1. For a switch fabric which has finite buffers, the throughput of
the switch equals 1 minus the loss rate of the switch, if the average cell arrival
rate to the switch is greater than zero.
Proof. Assume the total buffers of the switch can contain L cells. Let λ denotes
the average arrival rate at all the inputs of the switch as time goes to infinity,
L∗ (n) denotes the total amount of cells in the buffers of the switch at time
slot n, hence L∗ (n) ≤ L. We define Ca , Cl , Ct as the total cells arrived, lost
and traversed at the switch as time goes to infinity respectively. Obviously,
Ca = limn→∞ λn, Cl = limn→∞ λn · LR, then we have Ct = limn→∞ (λn −
λn · LR − L∗ (n)). Thus, the throughput equals
                        Ct                 L∗ (n)
                 TP =      = lim (1 − LR −        ) = 1 − LR
                        Ca  n→∞            λ·n
Definition 3. The delay of a switch fabric is the average delay of all the packets
that traversed the switch as time goes to infinity. We define DL as the delay of
the switch.

    Then, we give some definitions related to the scheduling algorithms.

Definition 4. A scheduling algorithm is called work-conserving if, using this
scheduling algorithm, any output of the switch will always be busy if at least one
buffer destined to this output is not empty. Otherwise, the scheduling algorithm
is called non-work-conserving.

Definition 5. A scheduling algorithm is called static if the rule of scheduling
remains the same regardless of the system’s state. Otherwise, it is called dynamic.

Definition 6. A static random scheduling algorithm is called fair if at each
time slot, a column’s output scheduler randomly (with the same probability)
selects one of the crosspoint to send out its HOL cell.

    At the last, we present a definition related to the arrival traffic.

Definition 7. The traffic at an input is said to be uniform, if each cell arriving
at the input has the equal probability of going to any output of the switch.


3    Performance Analysis With Different Buffer Size

We focus on giving a theoretical throughput and delay calculation expression
according to the buffer size in this section.
   Consider the CQ switch model shown in Fig. 1. We assume the cell arrivals
at each input are governed by independent Bernoulli process and with fixed
probability heading to each output. Each output scheduler uses a static non-
work-conserving random scheduling algorithm. We use the following notations:

ρi , the Bernoulli parameter of the cell arrival process in input Ii .
akij , the probability of k cells arrived at XBij in a given time slot. k = 0, 1.
dij , the probability of any cell arrived at Ii heading to the output Oj .
     PN
       j=1 dij = 1 and 0 ≤ dij ≤ 1 for i = 1, . . . , N .
sij , the probability of crosspoint buffer XBij being selected by output Oj .
     PN
       i=1 sij = 1 and 0 < sij < 1 for j = 1, . . . , N .

    First, we present a formal description of a scheduling cycle in a time slot as
follows:

 – Arrival Step: At the beginning of a time slot, for input i, there exists a
   probability of ρi that one cell will arrive, and a probability of 1 − ρi that no
   cell will arrive. The cell arrived at input Ii has the probability of dij heading
   to the output Oj . Successive cells and cell arrivals at different inputs are
   independent.
 – Departure Step: Within the same slot after the arrival step, each output
   scheduler picks a crosspoint buffer out of all the buffers in its column with
   a static non-work-conserving random scheduling algorithm. For output Oj ,
   it selects crosspoint buffer XBij with the probability of sij , and schedules
   the HOL cell out of the switch if the selected buffer is not empty. Otherwise,
   no cells are transmitted through Oj in this time slot. Each output schedules
   cells independently and in parallel.
   Let Lij denotes the capacity of crosspoint buffer XBij in cells, we assume
that Lij = L(i, j = 1, 2, . . . , N ) for the ease to present. It means that all the
crosspoint buffers have the same capacity of L cells. We perform our analysis on
a particular crosspoint buffer XBij without loosing generality.
   We assume random variable Aij , Ai , A to be the number of cells arrived
to XBij , input Ii and the whole switch during a given time slot respectively.
According to the conditions given above, the value of Aij can only be 0 or 1.
Recall that akij denotes the probability that k cells arrive at XBij in a time slot,
then
                                   a0ij = P {Aij = 0} = 1 − ρi · dij
                                   a1ij = P {Aij = 1} = ρi · dij                                             (1)
                                   akij = P {Aij = k} = 0             k 6= 0, 1



𝑎𝑖𝑗0 + 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗                 1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎𝑖𝑗0 + 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗           1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎𝑖𝑗0 + 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗              1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗

                  1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗                     1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗                         1 − 𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎1𝑖𝑗

      0                                  1                ...             L-1                            L

                     𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎𝑖𝑗0                        𝑠𝑖𝑗 𝑎𝑖𝑗0                               𝑠𝑖𝑗

              Fig. 2. The Quasi-birth-death state transition diagram for XBij .


    We define random variable Qij (m) as the cells in XBij at the end of time
slot m. According to the conditions stated before, we can find that Qij (m) can
be modeled as a discrete-time Quasi-birth-death process as Fig. 2 shows. The
transition diagram can be interpreted as follows:
 – The transitions from state l to l + 1 mean the probability that there is an
   arrival at the buffer and the buffer is not selected by the output scheduler.
 – Transitions from state l to itself are calculated under 3 different conditions.
   1) While l = 0, it equals the probability of one arrival and one departure
   plus with the probability of no arrival. 2) While l = 1, . . . , L − 1, it equals
   the probability of one arrival and one departure plus with the probability of
   no arrival and no departure. 3) While l = L, it equals the probability of one
   arrival and no departure (the cell will be dropped in the arrival step when
   the buffer is full) plus with the probability of no arrival and no departure.
 – Transitions from state l to state l − 1 are calculated under 2 different
   conditions. 1) While l = 1, . . . , L − 1, it equals the probability of no arrival
   and one departure. 2) While l = L, it equals the probability of the buffer
   being selected (the buffer length will still be L before the departure step
   begins as the cell will be dropped in the arrival step when the buffer is full).

   Let Qij denotes the steady-state queue length of XBij , according to the
formula of the steady-state probabilities of discrete-time Quasi-birth-death
process [13], we can get the stead-state queue length distribution as follows:


                0                              1
               ηij =
                            PL−1  (1−sij )a1ij l                 (1−s )a1 L
                                                                          ij
                       1+      l=1      sij a0ij
                                                         + a0ij       sij a0ij
                                                                                 ij


                                              !l
                l     0
                             (1 − sij )a1ij
               ηij = ηij                           ,    l = 1, . . . , L − 1          (2)
                                sij a0ij
                                                   !L
                L     0 0
                                (1 − sij )a1ij
               ηij = ηij aij
                                   sij a0ij

        l
where ηij defines the steady-state probability of XBij ’s length equals l, i.e Qij =
l.
   So far, we have derived the steady-state probability distribution of XBij ’s
length. Next, we will use these results to analyze the throughput and delay of
the CQ switch.


3.1   Throughput Analysis

Obviously, the probability of a cell arrived at XBij being dropped equals the
                                       L
probability of XBij being full, i.e., ηij for the steady-state.
    We define the random variable Dij , Di and D as the number of cells dropped
at XBij , input Ii and the whole switch during a given time slot at the steady-
state. Obviously, Dij , Di could only be 0 or 1. Then, we can get the probability
of a cell arrived at input Ii being dropped in a time slot as

                                                         N
                                                         X
                                                                     L
                           P {Di = 1|Aj = 1} =                  dij ηij               (3)
                                                          j=1


The above equation comes from the fact that the probability of a cell arrived at
input i being dropped in a given time slot equals the sum of probabilities that
a cell arrived at Ii being dropped at any crosspoint buffer of this line.
    Further, we have the expectation of the dropped cells at Ii during a time slot
as following
                                                                 
                                                     XN
                                                               L
              E(Di ) = ρi · P {Di = 1|Aj = 1} = ρi       dij ηij              (4)
                                                              j=1


   Thus, we get the expectation of dropped cells at the whole switch in a given
time slot as
                                                          
                             XN        XN      XN
                                                        L
                  E(D) = E(     Di ) =    ρi      dij ηij                  (5)
                                   i=1         i=1      j=1


      Then, we get the loss rate of the CQ switch as follows
                                       PN        P               
                                                    N          L
                             E(D)        i=1 ρ i    j=1  dij η ij
                     LR =           =          PN                                  (6)
                             E(A)                 i=1 ρi

where random variable A denotes the number of cells arrived at the switch during
a time slot and E(A) means the expectation of A.
    Therefore, from Proposition 1 we can acquire the closed-form formula of the
throughput of the switch as
                                      PN      P             
                                                  N        L
                                           ρ
                                        i=1 i         d  η
                                                  j=1 ij ij
                  T P = 1 − LR = 1 −         PN                              (7)
                                               i=1 ρi


3.2     Delay Analysis

Then, we analyze the average delay of CQ switch. Similarly, we begin with
focusing on a certain crosspoint buffer XBij .
    Let random variable Wij , Wi denotes the time slots a cell spent in the steady-
state (i.e., delay) in XBij and input Ii respectively. We assume that at the time
a cell arriving at XBij , the buffer length Qij = l(0 ≤ l < L) and the cell has
spent n time slots in XBij . We only consider the delay of a cell while it is not
dropped by the switch because the delay of dropped cells is meaningless. Thus,
we can have
                                                              n−l            l+1
                   P {Wij = n|Qij = l} = Cnn−l (1 − sij )           (sij )         (8)

where n = l, l + 1, . . . , ∞. This equation denotes that the probability of a cell’s
delay Wij = n equals the probability of the buffer having been selected l times
during n slots to move the cell to the HOL and the buffer being selected after n
slots to schedule out the cell.
    Thus, the steady-state probability of a cell’s delay being n time slots in XBij
equals
                     Pn    l
                                                  
                       l=0 ηij P {Wij = n|Qij = l} , 0 ≤ n ≤ L − 1
       P {Wij = n} = PL−1 l                                                  (9)
                       l=0 ηij P {Wij = n|Qij = l} , n > L − 1


    Using the results of equation (2) and (1), we transform the above equation
into
                                    n
                        0       1−s
                     ηij
                         sij a0 ij        , 0≤n≤L−1
                                  ij
     P {Wij = n} =                                   1 l              (10)
                                                  n−l aij
                        0                n
                                           PL−1
                     ηij sij (1 − sij )
                    
                                             l=0 Cn   a0
                                                              , n>L−1
                                                       ij



  Then, using the equation above, we can derive the following formula of the
mean delay of a cell in XBij which is not dropped as follows
                                      ∞
                                      X
                          E{Wij } =         nP {Wij = n}                    (11)
                                      n=0

   Therefore, the mean delay of a cell coming into Ii which is not dropped equals
that
                                       XN
                           E{Wi } =       dij E{Wij }                        (12)
                                       j=1

   Thus, we acquire the delay of the switch (i.e the average delay of all the
packets that traversed the switch) from the following equation
                                    PN
                                       ρi E{Wi }
                             DL = Pi=1
                                    N
                                                                            (13)
                                  ( i=1 ρi ) · T P

Although the above formula of the switch’s delay is not closed-form, we have
proven its convergency. The proof is omitted here due to the space limitation.
    So far, we derive the precise expression of the CQ switch’s throughput and
delay using static non-work-conserving random scheduling algorithms. Naturally,
an appropriate work-conserving scheduling algorithm will lead to a better
performance compared to the non-work-conserving random scheduling algorithm
that we use, to perform theoretical analysis. Next, we briefly prove that under
independent Bernoulli traffic, work-conserving random scheduling (randomly
selecting a crosspoint-buffer from all the non-empty ones) performs better than
static non-work-conserving random scheduling algorithm both in throughput
and average delay.

Theorem 1. Under same independent Bernoulli traffic, a CQ switch using
work-conserving random (WCRand) scheduling algorithm has a higher through-
put and lower average delay than using non-work-conserving (nWCRand) fair
random scheduling algorithm.
Proof. Similarly, we could also build a discrete-time Quasi-birth-death diagram
for WCRand as Fig. 2 shows. As stated before, for fair nWCRand, we have
sij = N1 in each steady state of queue length. Unlike nWCRand, sij of WCRand
between different states in Fig. 2 are not the same. Let s0ij (m) denotes the
probability of crosspoint buffer XBij being selected by output Oj using WCRand
                                                             0
in state m, and s∗ij = max{s0ij (m), 0 ≤ m ≤ L}. ηijl defines the steady-
state probability of XBij ’s length equals l using WCRand. Because WCRand
randomly selects a crosspoint-buffer from all the non-empty ones in each time
slot, we can have
                                         1
                                  s∗ij ≥     = sij                             (14)
                                         N
Thus, according to the formula of the steady-state probabilities of discrete-time
                                           0
Quasi-birth-death process, we can get ηijL ≤ ηij   L
                                                     . Therefore, it can be derived
that WC-Rand has a higher throughput than nWCRand using equation (7).
Also, from equation (11-13), we can easily get that WCRand has a lower average
delay than nWCRand.

    Similarly, if we use the frequency of a crosspoint queue being selected by work-
conserving Round-Robin (WCRR) algorithm to approximate the probability of a
crosspoint queue being selected by WCrand algorithm, we can prove that WCRR
also performs better than nWCRand. Furthermore, it is intuitive that longest-
queue-first (LQF) scheduling has the highest throughput. A strict proof for
these 2 work-conserving algorithms is beyond the scope of this paper. Later,
we will show by our simulations that the above theoretical analysis provide an
appropriate lower-bound for a CQ switch’s performance using work-conserving
algorithms.


4   Verification of Analysis and Real Trace Simulations

In this section, we first present simulation results under both uniform and non-
uniform Bernoulli traffic to verify our former theoretical analysis in Section 4.1.
We consider four scheduling algorithms in our simulations: nWCRand, WCRand,
WCRR and LQF. We calculate the theoretical value (TV) of the loss rate and the
delay of nWCRand scheduling algorithm, according to the former results we got
under both uniform and non-uniform Bernoulli traffic. Various of simulations
have been done under different loads and using CQ switches with different
port numbers. All these results have verified our former analysis. Due to space
limitation, we just present the results of 16 × 16 CQ under a heavy load of 0.95.
Each simulation run was conducted for 109 time slots.
    Secondly in Section 4.2, we present simulation results of a 16 × 16 switch
fabric under real-trace traffic using the 4 work-conserving scheduling algorithms
mentioned above. It’s shown that with work-conserving algorithms, the CQ
switch is able to reach a good performance with moderate memory resource
consumption. Our data consists of two parts from CAIDA [14], 2 1-minute traces
from 10Gbps links , one at San Jose and another from Chicago. All the packets
are fragmented into 64 bytes long cells before sent into the switch fabric, and
the time slot of the switch is set to be 51.2ns according to the transmission
time of a cell on a 10Gbps link. We divide a 60 seconds trace into 16 equal size
segments for 16 inputs. The destination port of each packet is set as the hash
value of destination IP address. The traffic distribution under this situation is
not uniform but highly skewed and bursty. We believe this is similar to the real
condition of the Internet. Approximately 1.7 × 107 packets with total length of
1.15 × 1010 bytes are sent into the switch fabric during each experimentation.
We only present the simulation result of San Jose trace due to space limitation.
The results for Chicago trace are similar.


4.1             Verification of Performance Analysis



                                nWCRand(TV)   nWCRand                       WCRR     LQF   WCRand
               1
                                                                          1E−5
                                                      Average Delay (s)
Loss Rate




            1E−3
                                                                          1E−6
            1E−6

                                                                          1E−7
            1E−9
                1   2   4    8 16 32 64 128 256 512                          1   2   4    8 16 32 64 128 256 512
                            Buffer Size (Cells)                                          Buffer Size (Cells)
                        (a) Loss rate                                                (b) Average delay

Fig. 3. Loss rate and average delay of a 16 × 16 CQ switch under uniform Bernoulli
traffic with ρ = 0.95.


    From Fig. 3 and 4 we can see that, the results of non-work-conserving random
scheduling algorithm are almost identical as the theoretical results we derived
before, under both uniform and non-uniform traffic. Investigation into the slight
difference at the right end of the curves shows that the difference is due to
the computer random number generation are not 100% random. Under uniform
Bernoulli traffic with heavy input load of 95% as we can see in Fig. 3(a), with
crosspoint buffer size of 256 (such buffer size is easy to implement with modern
semiconductor technology[8]), the loss rate of nWCRand can be as low as 10−7
using the theoretical results we got before. Such a loss rate is good enough
for a lot of switch fabrics design and provide loose performance lower bound.
Our results also show a simple work-conserving algorithm like Round-robin and
Random can reach the same performance with only buffer size of 32 cells, and
the theoretical results could serve as a loose performance lower bound for them.
Using a more elaborated scheduling algorithm such as LQF, no packets are
lost during the 10−9 time slots simulation with only buffer size of 16. As for
                                nWCRand(TV)   nWCRand                        WCRR       LQF     WCRand
               1
                                                                           1E−5




                                                       Average Delay (s)
Loss Rate

            1E−3
                                                                           1E−6

            1E−6                                                           1E−7


            1E−9                                                           1E−8
                1   2    4    8 16 32 64 128 256 512                           1    2    4     8 16 32 64 128 256 512
                             Buffer Size (Cells)                                              Buffer Size (Cells)
                    (a) Loss rate                                                       (b) Average delay

Fig. 4. Loss rate and average delay of a 16×16 CQ switch under non-uniform Bernoulli
traffic with ρ = 0.95 and ω = 0.5.


the average delay, our theoretical analysis shows that with buffer size of 64, a
CQ switch can have a stable average delay about 10−5 seconds using nWCRand,
which is shown in Fig. 3(b). While using work-conserving algorithms, the average
delay is much lower down to less than 10−6 seconds.
    Similarly, under non-uniform traffic as shown in Fig. 4, our analytic results
are also verified and effectively provide loose performance lower bound to work-
conserving algorithms. ω in the picture defines the unbalanced probability (refer
to [3]) and ω = 0.5 means the traffic is extremely non-uniform. Accordingly, we
set the selecting probability parameters of the nWCRand used in this simulation
as the same as the load unbalanced probability. The results are very similar to
the uniform traffic, except nWCRand and WCRR having a much higher loss
rate than uniform traffic because of the blindness to the traffic distribution of
their scheduling manner. On the contrary, LQF has the ability to adjust to the
imbalance.


4.2             Simulations Under Real-trace



               1
                                                       Average Delay (s)




                                                                           8E−7
Loss Rate




            1E−3
                                                                           6E−7

            1E−6                                                                               WCRR   LQF   WCRand
                                                                           4E−7
               1    2    4    8 16 32 64 128 256 512                           1    2    4     8 16 32 64 128 256 512
                             Buffer Size (Cells)                                              Buffer Size (Cells)
                        (a) Loss rate                                               (b) Average delay

     Fig. 5. Loss rate and average delay of a 16 × 16 CQ switch under real-trace traffic.
    Fig. 5 shows the result of a 16×16 CQ switch under real-trace traffic. The loss
rate in Fig. 5(a) refers to the packet loss rate. Once a cell of a packet is dropped,
the packet is counted as lost in the switch. We can see that a CQ switch only using
crosspoint memory can reach a good performance with simple work-conserving
scheduling algorithms. In Fig. 5(a) we can found that the switch can has a loss
rate down to 10−6 with buffer size of 64 using LQF. A simple Round-robin or
Random scheduling is able to reach the same performance with buffer size of
256, which is totally within the capability of modern chip technology. Also, the
delay performance shown in Fig. 5(b) is very good. The delay here refers to the
average packet delay. We can see that WCRR and WCRand have a better delay
performance than LQF. It’s due to that, starvation, which greatly increases the
delay, may happen using LQF algorithm.
    This result under real-trace traffic demonstrates that a CQ switch with such
scale can reach a very good performance with feasible crosspoint buffer size.
Thus a self-sufficient CQ switch is exactly suitable for ultra-high-speed link in
practical use.


5   Conclusion

This paper reveals the impact of buffer size on CQ switches performance and
provides a theoretical guidance on designing the buffer size in pure CQ switch.
Also, we show that CQ is a promising building block for high linerate switch
fabrics. As a next step, we plan to actually design ultra-high-speed and large-
port-number switch fabrics with multi-plane or mutli-stage structure, using CQ
as building blocks to scale up. We also plan to design scheduling algorithms with
performance better than round-robin algorithm, random or LQF presented in
this paper.


Acknowledgment

This work has been supported in part by the National High Technology
Research and Development Program of China (863 Program) under Grant
No. 2013AA013302, the National Key Basic Research Program of China (973
program) under Grant No. 2013CB329105 and the State Key Program of
National Natural Science of China under Grant No. 61233007.
   We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments.
We greatly thank Kuan Cheng for his useful discussion on the mathematical
demonstration. Also, we thank Zhiyan Zheng for the packet trace of real
operational network that he provided us. At last, we thank Juexing Liao for
her proofreading on this paper.
                               Bibliography


 [1] McKeown, N.: The islip scheduling algorithm for input-queued switches.
     Networking, IEEE/ACM Transactions on 7(2) (apr 1999) 188 –201
 [2] Li, Y., Panwar, S., Chao, H.: On the performance of a dual round-robin
     switch. In: INFOCOM 2001. Volume 3. (2001) 1688 –1697 vol.3
 [3] Rojas-Cessa, R., Oki, E., Jing, Z., Chao, H.: Cixb-1: combined input-one-
     cell-crosspoint buffered switch. In: HPSR 2001. (2001) 324 –329
 [4] He, S.M., Sun, S.T., Guan, H.T., Zheng, Q., Zhao, Y.J., Gao, W.: On
     guaranteed smooth switching for buffered crossbar switches. Networking,
     IEEE/ACM Transactions on 16(3) (june 2008) 718 –731
 [5] Oki, E., Jing, Z., Rojas-Cessa, R., Chao, H.J.: Concurrent round-
     robin-based dispatching schemes for clos-network switches. Networking,
     IEEE/ACM Trans. on 10(6) (2002) 830–844
 [6] Iyer, S., Awadallah, A., McKeown, N.: Analysis of a packet switch with
     memories running slower than the line-rate. In: INFOCOM 2000. Volume 2.,
     IEEE (2000) 529–537
 [7] Abel, F., Minkenberg, C., Iliadis, I., Engbersen, T., Gusat, M., Gramsamer,
     F., Luijten, R.P.: Design issues in next-generation merchant switch fabrics.
     IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw. 15(6) (December 2007) 1603–1615
 [8] Kanizo, Y., Hay, D., Keslassy, I.: The crosspoint-queued switch. In:
     INFOCOM 2009, IEEE. (april 2009) 729 –737
 [9] Radonjic, M., Radusinovic, I.:         Impact of scheduling algorithms on
     performance of crosspoint-queued switch. annals of telecommunications -
     annales des tlcommunications 66 (2011) 363–376
[10] Radusinovic, I., Radonjic, M., Simurina, A., Maljevic, I., Veljovic, Z.: A new
     analytical model for the cq switch throughput calculation under the bursty
     traffic. AEU - International Journal of Electronics and Communications
     66(12) (2012) 1038 – 1041
[11] Cao, Z., Panwar, S.S.: Efficient buffering and scheduling for a single-
     chip crosspoint-queued switch. In: Proceedings of the eighth ACM/IEEE
     symposium on Architectures for networking and communications systems.
     ANCS ’12, New York, NY, USA, ACM (2012) 111–122
[12] : Cisco crs carrier routing system 16-slot line card chassis system description.
     Cisco Systems, Inc (2012)
[13] Trivedi, K.: Probability and statistics with reliability, queuing, and
     computer science applications. Wiley New York (2002)
[14] :                       Anonymized           2013        internet        traces.
     https://data.caida.org/datasets/passive-2013/
